---
layout: blog-post
title: How To Sell $7.9 Million Of Mercedes-Benz Classics
permalink: /blog/:title/
---

<p>If you’ve ever considered the classic car business as a hobby or side venture, you would certainly be solidified by any hesitations you may have previously encountered about the potential success of such a business. With a little ( or probably quite a lot) of patience, a magnificent understanding of classic Mercedes-Benz cars, an attention to detail that is unparalleled and enough money to invest in the restoration of some of the most elegant and dignified in-demand classic Mercedes models, you’ll then just need to be able to understand and navigate some of the most well known and networked car auctions.</p>

<p>Well - maybe just enjoying the work of other’s is enough of a treat for most of Mercedes-Benz fans.</p>

<p>At the Barrett Jackson &amp Gooding Company Car auctions held in Scottsdale, Arizona, Mercedes-Benz fans were provided with some exciting entertainment. The two huge car auctions proved to be a big success for those involved in the classic car industry.</p>

<p>Both auction companies simultaneously hold their high-end auctions in Scottsdale during the same weekend, which leads to a lot of beautiful cars, money and egos bidding up the prices of some of these incredible masterpieces.</p>

<p>The top 5 selling Mercedes Benz vehicles alone sold for a combined total of $7,920,000. That’s not including all the other Mercedes classics that were sold in the $70,000-$200,000 range.</p>

<p>Four of the top 5 sales came from the Gooding Company auctions.</p>

<p>These included the:</p>

<p>1960 300 SL Roadster at $1,100,000.00</p>

<p>1956 300 SL Gullwing at $1,402,500.00</p>

<p>1959 300 SL Roadster at $1,430,000.00</p>

<p>1956 300 SL Gullwing $1,897,500.00</p>

<p>The two gullwing vehicles were both red leather interiors with black exteriors. The higher bid gullwing, sold at $1.8 million, came as fully unrestored. It had completely original paint and leather interior that had never been touched before for restoration.</p>

<p>The second Gullwing had been restored to Concours Condition and was accompanied with fitted luggage and belly pans. It had maintained single-family ownership from 1957 to 2006.</p>

<p>The Barrett Jackson Auction though took the prize as the top seller for Mercedes Benz during the weekend. A 1955 300 SL Gullwing sold for $2,090,000.</p>

<p>Bought new at Mercedes Benz of Hollywood, it has 65,999 miles. The gullwing has resided in Pleasanton, CA for the last 40 years until recently being moved over to Reno, NV in 2009. The vehicle came with the 1956 California yellow plate and original pink slip. The restoration process started three years ago for the gullwing and all parts were supplied by the Mercedes Benz Classic Center in Irvine.</p>