---
layout: blog-post
title: How Mercedes-AMG Designs And Builds An Engine
permalink: /blog/:title/
---

<p>We currently live in an era where we are capable to achieve a variety of feats just because of the way technology has grown. On a consistent basis there are a variety of technology teams, engineers, and every day citizens solving new ways to make products more efficient. It is of the utmost importance that we continue this progress with technology as the more we learn and grow, the more efficient life (and some work areas) can become.</p>
<p>In the auto industry there are a wide variety of consistent advances being implemented. It is common to see and know someone that owns a vehicle today for transportation specific to their exact requirements.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.autohaussouthbay.com/2017/03/24/a-history-of-mercedes-benz-and-amg/">Mercedes-AMG</a> is one of the most popular auto brands in the world and was created by two automotive engineers that had a love for motorsports, utilizing their passion for fine-tuning the capabilities of engines inside of <a href="https://www.autohaussouthbay.com/2017/04/03/a-history-of-mercedes-benz-racing/">Mercedes-Benz racecars</a>.</p>
<p>Today we are going to discuss the intricate details of how <a href="https://www.autohaussouthbay.com/2017/04/06/mercedes-benz-amg-sport-driving-modes/">Mercedes-AMG designs</a> and builds the engines that are presently being used in their vehicles. We will cover details including how the process works on the <a href="https://www.autohaussouthbay.com/2017/04/14/mercedes-benz-assembly-line-production/">assembly line</a>, the concepts behind the engineers' process, and understanding the technical specifications of the Mercedes-AMG product.</p>
<h5><strong>How Does The Process Work On The Assembly Line?</strong></h5>
<p>Before anything begins on the assembly line, engineers first have to understand the car they're producing. This is the base of the process, as the engine for a Mercedes-AMG S65 is completely different than the engine for a <a href="https://www.autohaussouthbay.com/2017/04/25/the-mercedes-amg-gt-concept-is-porsches-new-panamera-competitor/">Mercedes-AMG GT C Coupe</a>. Once this is decided, then the entire process of building an engine actually begins.</p>
<p>Building a specific engine for a specific Mercedes-Benz on the assembly line requires the knowledge of knowing the features of the car being built. For example, there are intricate details that differ from the 2.0L Inline 4 Turbo engine and the 6.0L V12 Biturbo engine.</p>
<p>Speed and power play major roles in the way engineers shape the engines that go within Mercedes-AMG cars. When the engineers understand the combination that they want to achieve with a specific car, then they can continue to build the engines appropriately.</p>
<p>The last details that engineers have to make a decision on are the actual design of the engine. Every single engine will not be built the exact same nor be able to fit every single trim level in the Mercedes-AMG line. This requirement is just as important as the actual elements and materials that make the engine for a variety of reasons. For example, compact size engines are capable of being powerful, however, bigger engines are typically better at handling more horsepower and consistent use at high levels.</p>
<h5><strong>How Do The Engineers' Decide The Requirements For Engines?</strong></h5>
<p>When the decision of what will be included within the design of the production Mercedes-AMG engine, there are a variety of factors that are taken into consideration. Engineers have to make sure that every single element of the engine is perfect before development and production for a car. Requirements and factors for design of engines are often based upon the specifications and intentions of how the sports car will be utilized at its optimum peak performance.</p>
<h5><strong>Different Types Of Engines The Mercedes-AMG Division Produce (technical specifications)</strong></h5>
<p>At the current moment there are 6 different engines Mercedes-AMG utilizes for their vehicles. The engineers responsible for the Mercedes-AMG division definitely put in a lot of thought and consideration into these engines. Each engine is <a href="https://www.autohaussouthbay.com/2017/04/01/mercedes-benz-amg-handcrafts-performance-luxury-sport-vehicles/">handcrafted by Mercedes-AMG</a> and this is what let's you know the Mercedes-AMG team ensures that they are producing the best product possible. We are going to cover 3 of the 6 engines the Mercedes-AMG division offers and explain their differences and the significance of each feature specific to each engine.</p>
<p><strong>2.0L Inline 4 Turbo:</strong> This engine is regarded by engineers as the most powerful of its kind to ever be built. With twin-scroll turbocharging, any car equipped with this engine is sure to deliver on high performance while maintaining low fuel consumption.</p>
<p><strong>3.0L V6 biturbo:</strong> For anyone seeking speed with large turbochargers and stunning AMG software, this will be the option you seek. Being able to have the perfect balance is for those that may be novice in regards to upgrading engine specifications.</p>
<p><strong>4.0L Dry Sump V8 biturbo:</strong> When it comes to having a sports car that boosts major power the engineers definitely did something unique. This engine's design is the world's first sports car engine that has turbos inside of the engine V plus dry sump lubrication for optimum performance.</p>
<p>When individuals decide to invest in a high performance sports car, the engines are typically the most important element. Power, speed, and consistency can differ based off of the amount of turbos inside the engine and how it can handle emissions. The team at Mercedes-AMG has definitely provided the proper working skills in order to offer unique and powerful engines.</p>